---
layout: post
title:  Almost there
date:   2013-07-24 17:00:00
categories: news
---

RailsCamp Germany #5 is approaching fast, with only 2 days left until our very
special geekend begins. High time for some last updates and infos to prepare us
all for this unconference extraordinaire. So, without further ado, here's what you
need to know:

### What to bring

When you leave your house, apartment, cave, boat, or whatever awesome place
you're living at, make sure to bring (at least some of) these items along:

* Computer
* Power adapters, cables, etc. (esp. display adapters for projectors!)
* Towel
* Light clothes (and preferably lots of them, because it's going to be hot and
  humid)
* Sports clothes (Nothing elaborate. Just don't miss out on a fun round of e.g.
  Ultimate Frisbee, because you cannot sweat your fancy pants!)
* Camping stuff, if you want to sleep at the venue (at least a sleeping bag, but
  you can go pro on this and bring your tents and whatnot, if you like.)
* Climbing equipment, if you're an avid climber (there's a wall in the main
  hall, and you can also rent equipment from the Abenteuerhallen)
* Swimming pants/suits or similar, if you want to cool down with a swim sometime
  (there's a place not far away, bonus points for mankinis!)
* Medicine and other such things you may need
* Frisbees, balls, outdoor games, board games, funky hardware or objects, and
  basically anything you want to share with others and/or have fun with. Go
  crazy!

### Session planning

This week we launched [the session planning tool](http://sessions.railscamp.de),
where you should propose your session as soon as possible, so people can show
their interest and we can plan more efficiently on Saturday morning.

The tool is still under development, so please expect a few quirks and bugs.
The app is actually being built by our friends of
[eurucamp](http://2013.eurucamp.org/) for their awesome conference, which also
allows for plenty of activities during the day. Many thanks for letting us
(ab)use it!

Make sure you add good descriptions, especially if your proposed session is not
a talk! And please register and show your interest for the sessions you might
want to attend.

### Getting there

In case you haven't seen it, instructions for getting to the Camp are listed on
[the venue page](/venue) on the website. If you have questions beyond that,
shoot us [a tweet](https://twitter.com/railscamp_de), or drop us an email at
mail\[at\]railscamp.de.

### Tickets

Don't bother with printing out your tickets. We'll just use a simple guest list,
nightclub style. If you chose the pay-at-the-door option, please make sure to
bring *counted* cash. We won't have change for you, especially not in coins.

There are still some last tickets left, so we still have room for a few more
people. If you haven't already, tell all your Ruby/Rails/Web friends about
RailsCamp! Tweet about it, blog about it, post it on F\*\*\*book... you get the
idea.

### Setup and Warmup Party

Setup will begin on Friday morning, and the more people we are, the easier it
gets. So if you have time, swing by the Abenteuerhallen anytime you want on
Friday and join the prep crew!

The warmup party will take place at the venue and start at about 20:00. You can
already sleep in the skate hall or outdoors on Friday, if you like. There are
showers as well, so you can start fresh into the day in the morning.

### Opening Session

And finally, we'll begin the welcome reception and planning session at about
11:00 on Saturday morning. Everything else will be announced and explained
there, so please make sure you don't miss it, everybody!

### See you there!

That's it for today. If you have any questions, tweet us at
[@railscamp_de](https://twitter.com/railscamp_de) or send us a good old email to
mail\[at\]railscamp.de! Have a good trip to Cologne and see you at the Camp!
